# Terminology

- CRD
	- Custom Resource Definition
- Group
	- A Group contains one or more Versions
- Version
	- A Version allows us to change how an API works over time
- Kind
	- An API type (each group-version contains one or more Kinds)
- Resources
	- A use of a Kind in the API
		- "For instance, the pods resource corresponds to the Pod Kind. However, sometimes, the same Kind may be returned by multiple resources. For instance, the Scale Kind is returned by all scale subresources, like deployments/scale or replicasets/scale."
	- Notice that resources are always lowercase, and by convention are the lowercase form of the Kind.

# General Notes

- When designing a k8s API, all serialized fields *must* be `camelCase`
	- Kubebuilder uses JSON struct tags to specify the casing
	- It seems to be convention to `omitempty` any JSON fields that could be empty
- "Fields may use most of the primitive types. Numbers are the exception: for API compatibility purposes, we accept three forms of numbers: `int32` and `int64` for integers, and `resource.Quantity` for decimals."
- "There's one other special type that we use: `metav1.Time`. This functions identically to `time.Time`, except that it has a fixed, portable serialization format."
- Comments similar to `// +comment` are called markers
	- They're used by the `controller-tools` binary when generating CRD manifests
- "If you've taken a peek at the rest of the files in the `api/v1/` directory, you might have noticed two additional files beyond `cronjob_types.go`: `groupversion_info.go` and `zz_generated.deepcopy.go`. Neither of these files ever needs to be edited (the former stays the same and the latter is autogenerated)."
- "Controllers are the core of Kubernetes, and of any operator. It's a controller's job to ensure that, for any given object, the actual state of the world (both the cluster state, and potentially external state like running containers for Kubelet or load balancers for a cloud provider) matches the desired state in the object."
	- We call this process reconciling.
	- "Most controllers eventually end up running on the cluster, so they need RBAC permissions, which we specify using controller-tools RBAC markers. These are the bare minimum permissions needed to run. As we add more functionality, we'll need to revisit these."

		```
		// +kubebuilder:rbac:groups=batch.tutorial.kubebuilder.io,resources=cronjobs,verbs=get;list;watch;create;update;patch;delete
		// +kubebuilder:rbac:groups=batch.tutorial.kubebuilder.io,resources=cronjobs/status,verbs=get;update;patch
		```

	- "The context is used to allow cancellation of requests, and potentially things like tracing. It's the first argument to all client methods. The Background context is just a basic context without any extra data or timing restrictions."

# Adding a New API

- Generate an API with a command similar to `kubebuilder create api --group batch --version v1 --kind CronJob`
	- This creates `api/v1/cronjob_types.go`
		- Inside this file, we define/modify a couple things:
			1. `Spec`
			1. `Status`
		- In general, we don't modify the `CronJob` or `CronJobList` structs inside this file -- all modifications go in either Spec or Status
